README.md, before:

# assumerole: A bash script to easily assume AWS roles using Temporary Security Credentials and MFA

The script uses the standard AWS credentials file `~/.aws/credentials` and it's own configuration file
`~/.assumerole` to assume a role on an account (defined in `~/.assumerole`), using the AWS profile in
`~/.aws/credentials` by the `aws_profile` property.

An example to illustrate this.

The AWS credentials file `~/.aws/credentials` contains:

```$xslt
[acme-bastion]
aws_access_key_id = AKIAXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
aws_secret_access_key = bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb
region = eu-central-1
```

The `~/.assumerole` file contains this:

```$xslt
{
  "assume_roles": {
    "acme-sandbox-read": {
      "aws_profile": "acme-bastion",
      "aws_account": "123456789012",
      "aws_mfa_arn": "arn:aws:iam::210987654321:mfa/rtytgat",
      "aws_role": "read"
    },
    ...
}
```

And running the command:

```$xslt
$ source /usr/local/bin/assumerole
Select from these available accounts:
... acme-sandbox-read acme-otheraccount-read ...
Account:   acme-sandbox-read
MFA token: 123456
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
export AWS_SESSION_TOKEN=aaaaaaa/a/very/long/string/aaaaaaaaaa
```

Does the following:

* use the profile `acme-bastion`
* if the user has permissions to assume the role `read` on account `123456789012` ...
* ... temporary credentials are requested for that account
* extract the relevant properties from the returned JSON file
* sets the environment varialbes (only useful when using `source assumerole` or `. assumerole`)
* and also prints the `export` commands to `stdout` for the user to copy/paste

## Pre-requisites

* The script uses `jq` to parse the JSON configuration file `~/.assumerole`
* The AWS CLI, see [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/installing.html) on how to install this

## Usage

```
$ source assumerole profile maftoken
```

```
$ . ./assumerole 
Select from these available accounts:
cust1-prod-read cust1-staging-power
Account:   cust1-prod-read
MFA token: 331956
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=ASIAXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=7O801XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXahoLwdz8KLtRCc1Bvh
export AWS_SESSION_TOKEN=FQoDYXdXXXXXX...XXXX//
```

When sourcing the scipt using `source` or `. ./assumerole`, the environment variables are set
by the script, no need to copy/paste the output.

The user has to enter 2 values:
* The account: this is a account string defined in the configuration file `~/.assumerole`
* MFA token: the current value of the MFA token used as multi factor device

## Environment Variables

### `AWS_STS_DURATION_SECONDS`

Set this envvar to the number of seconds you wish the temporary credentials to be valid.

Mind though, the assumed role should be configured to allow at least the requested session
duration. If the role's session duration is less than what you specify here, the
`assumerole` operation will fail.

To increase the role's maximume CLI/API session duration, use the AWS Console or this CLI
command:

```
aws iam update-role -–role-name name-of-the-role -–max-session-duration 14400
```

## The configuration file `~/.assumerole`

This is an example configuration file:

```
{
  "assume_roles": {
    "logical_name_for_stsAssumeRole": {
      "aws_profile": "aws_profile_to_use",
      "aws_account": "account_number_of_account_where_to_assume_the_role",
      "aws_mfa_arn": "arn_of_user_mfa_devoce",
      "aws_role": "name_of_role_to_assume"
    },
    "mycompany-prod-read": {
      "aws_profile": "mycompany-bastion",
      "aws_account": "123456789012",
      "aws_mfa_arn": "arn:aws:iam::210987654321:mfa/myuser",
      "aws_role": "read"
    },
    ...
  }
}
```

### `logical_name_for_stsAssumeRole`

This is a description for the role that will be assumed. It typically contains the name of the
account where the role is going to be assumed, and the name of the role to be assumed. This
is a string that can be chosen freely.

### `aws_profile`

The `assumerole` script will set the environment variable `AWS_PROFILE` to this value. That
means that the AWS CLI configuration file `~/.aws/credentials` should contain a named profile
that matches this string.

### `aws-account`

The numeric account ID of the AWS account where a role is to be assumed.

### `aws_role`

The name of the role to assume on the remote account.

### `aws_mfa_arn`

The ARN of the MFA device of the user on the account that will assume the role. This can be
a _bastion_ account, where only user are defined, and groups that allow `sts::AssumeRole`
permissions for a selection of accounts.

Commit message:

Doc update, bash commandline completion, sourcing the script is no longer required

README.md, after:

# assumerole: A bash script to easily assume AWS roles using Temporary Security Credentials and MFA

The script uses the standard AWS credentials file `~/.aws/credentials` and it's own configuration file
`~/.assumerole` to assume a role on an account (defined in `~/.assumerole`), using the AWS profile in
`~/.aws/credentials` by the `aws_profile` property.

An example to illustrate this.

The AWS credentials file `~/.aws/credentials` contains:

```$xslt
[acme-bastion]
aws_access_key_id = AKIAXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
aws_secret_access_key = bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb
region = eu-central-1
```

The `~/.assumerole` file contains this:

```$xslt
{
  "assume_roles": {
    "acme-sandbox-read": {
      "aws_profile": "acme-bastion",
      "aws_account": "123456789012",
      "aws_mfa_arn": "arn:aws:iam::210987654321:mfa/rtytgat",
      "aws_role": "read"
    },
    ...
}
```

And running the command:

```$xslt
$ /usr/local/bin/assumerole
Select from these available accounts:
... 
acme-sandbox-read
acme-otheraccount-read
...

Account:   acme-sandbox-read
MFA token: 123456
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
export AWS_SESSION_TOKEN=aaaaaaa/a/very/long/string/aaaaaaaaaa
```

Does the following:

* use the AWS profile `acme-bastion`
* if the user has permissions to assume the role `read` on account `123456789012` ...
* ... temporary credentials are requested for that account
* extract the relevant properties from the returned JSON file
* sets the environment variables
* and also prints the `export` commands to `stdout` for the user to copy/paste
* start a new shell

In the new shell, the permissions linked to the role that is being assumed is available for
the `aws` CLI.

Exiting the shell will unset the credential environment variables.

## Pre-requisites

* The script uses `jq` to parse the JSON configuration file `~/.assumerole`
* The AWS CLI, see [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/installing.html) on how to install this

## Usage

```
$ source assumerole profile maftoken
```

```
$ . ./assumerole 
Select from these available accounts:
cust1-prod-read cust1-staging-power
Account:   cust1-prod-read
MFA token: 331956
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=ASIAXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=7O801XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXahoLwdz8KLtRCc1Bvh
export AWS_SESSION_TOKEN=FQoDYXdXXXXXX...XXXX//
```

When sourcing the scipt using `source` or `. ./assumerole`, the environment variables are set
by the script, no need to copy/paste the output.

The user has to enter 2 values:
* The account: this is a account string defined in the configuration file `~/.assumerole`
* MFA token: the current value of the MFA token used as multi factor device

## Bash commandline completion

Bash commandline completion was introduced in version v0.1.1 and can be used to complete
account names.

For command completion to work, add these lines to your `~/.bash_profile` file:

```bash
# Bash completion for assumerole
_assumerole_accounts=$(assumerole accountlist)
complete -W "${_assumerole_accounts}" 'assumerole'
```

You need to star a new shell (or source the `~/.bash_profile` file) before command completion will be avialable.
## Environment Variables

### `AWS_STS_DURATION_SECONDS`

Set this envvar to the number of seconds you wish the temporary credentials to be valid.

Mind though, the assumed role should be configured to allow at least the requested session
duration. If the role's session duration is less than what you specify here, the
`assumerole` operation will fail.

To increase the role's maximume CLI/API session duration, use the AWS Console or this CLI
command:

```
aws iam update-role -–role-name name-of-the-role -–max-session-duration 14400
```

## The configuration file `~/.assumerole`

This is an example configuration file:

```
{
  "assume_roles": {
    "logical_name_for_stsAssumeRole": {
      "aws_profile": "aws_profile_to_use",
      "aws_account": "account_number_of_account_where_to_assume_the_role",
      "aws_mfa_arn": "arn_of_user_mfa_devoce",
      "aws_role": "name_of_role_to_assume"
    },
    "mycompany-prod-read": {
      "aws_profile": "mycompany-bastion",
      "aws_account": "123456789012",
      "aws_mfa_arn": "arn:aws:iam::210987654321:mfa/myuser",
      "aws_role": "read"
    },
    ...
  }
}
```

### `logical_name_for_stsAssumeRole`

This is a description for the role that will be assumed. It typically contains the name of the
account where the role is going to be assumed, and the name of the role to be assumed. This
is a string that can be chosen freely.

### `aws_profile`

The `assumerole` script will set the environment variable `AWS_PROFILE` to this value. That
means that the AWS CLI configuration file `~/.aws/credentials` should contain a named profile
that matches this string.

### `aws-account`

The numeric account ID of the AWS account where a role is to be assumed.

### `aws_role`

The name of the role to assume on the remote account.

### `aws_mfa_arn`

The ARN of the MFA device of the user on the account that will assume the role. This can be
a _bastion_ account, where only user are defined, and groups that allow `sts::AssumeRole`
permissions for a selection of accounts.
